Now for us to begin we have to look at how we are currently doing our sign it as we know signing in
is an asynchronous action.
We want to switch ah sign and process and authentication process over to a more promise oriented method
of checking our server fetching against our server and then updating our reducer accordingly.
Now we want to do this in a promise oriented way and not this observable way that we've got it.
Because a lot of applications are probably going to use a promise oriented way of doing authentication
and sign in and sign up.
So the best way that we can tackle this is we need to figure out what of those three methods of fetching
and then succeeding and then failing.
We need to do with our existing Simon Fuller so we know that right now in our sign and form we either
trigger a sign in with Google or a sign and with email and password.
So these are both different methods that we need to call so we can evaluate that we probably need to
create two separate sign in success sign and start and sign and failure.
Action types.
So that's what we're gonna do first.
If we see that there's overlap we can of course refactor after but the first thing that we need to do
is we are going to make a Google sign in start
our Google sign in success and our Google sign in failure
then we need the same thing for our email sign and
then we'll do the same thing so that we have our success
and our failure.
So now that we have our action types we need to create those actual actions.
And each one will be a little different.
So first we need are Google sign in start which is equal to a function that will just trigger the actual
assign it.
So here we're going to take user action type stock Google sign in start.
We don't need a payload because all we're saying is we're telling the eventual saga we will write that
will house our actual signing with Google trigger that we need to trigger our sign it
now our success and our failure calls will be different because our success we're gonna need the actual
current user at the end of it so here we're gonna do a Google sign in success which is equal to this
function that will get a user
that we will then set as our user action types Google sign in success
and our payload is our user will then also finally need our Google sign in failure
which will get our error if anything goes wrong.
And we will say Google
sign in failure or the payload goes to our error.
Now we're gonna need the same actions except we're gonna need them to be email so here we can just set
this to email except our type here needs to be capitalized.
Now the big difference with our email sign and start is that we know that we have to pass in a password
in an email when we look at our method because what we do is we pull it off of our state and then we
pass it into here.
So our email sign and we'll actually need to take an email and password value now we can pass it in
as an object or we can pass it in as separate parameters.
But the way that I would prefer us to do it is we just pass it in as the email and password and we're
just gonna say that when this comes in we're gonna get email and password like so
and then we'll just say our payload
is that object success and error will be pretty much the exact same.
And this will be our user actions now with this we of course one need to also modify our reduces.
So what we'll do inside of our user reduces is we will anticipate what's going to happen right now that
we're switching over to the sign and success on both our Google and email sign.
So here we are going to say that whenever we get our success call we're just gonna say Google sign in
success we're gonna get a payload which will be equal to the action that payload and we're going to
set our current user to it.
The same thing will happen with email sign and success.
So we actually are able to stack these cases like this which essentially represents that if either of
these actions are the case this will be what gets returned.
So we don't have to write two separate case statements with their own exact identical returns theme
and now we can actually do the same thing with our user action type stuff.
Google sign in failure as well as our email sign and failure
and here we'll have to store some error which will also by default be no and here what we can say is
we can say that error goes to action dog payload and we're also going to spread whatever other state
is in here inside of this now.
Another thing that we might want to do is clear the air if our message ever succeeds.
So here inside of our success we're also going to set Aaron back to null.
If our action type succeeds right where we sign and successfully then we want to clear any errors.
The reason we do this is because say we get an error and then retry the sign and well then we do want
to set error to null.
We want that value to be null again now.
After this the next thing we need to do is we need to actually modify our application code so that it
no longer leverages this so here we're just going to comment this out because in the midst of us changing
our application over we know that the majority of our code that has to do with our user authentication
actually lives inside of here so we don't want this to conflict with the new code that we're gonna write
which is perfectly fine and now we're going to begin writing our sagas so in order for us to write our
sagas we got to actually add a new user saga
now inside of our user saga.
We are going to import in our take the latest as well as the put from redux saga slash effects now.
The first one we should handle is our Google sign.
So in order for us to write our Google sign and we got to think about what we need we are just going
to listen for Google sign and star and then we are going to trigger our actual sign from the saga so
here we need to write our first function which is going to be called on Google sign in start.
Now of course we need to take that action that we're going to listen for.
So we're going to import in our user action now before we do.
There is one slight tweak we need to make.
We should change our export for user actions over to a default export because this will be the only
thing we're exporting.
And as a result we'll probably have to change our code that is importing in our user actions to also
now treat it as a default export
and they'll probably be just our actions folder or sorry our actions file and then are reduced or file
and now we'll just import user action types from user types and now inside of our saga we're gonna yield
to this take latest listener on our user action type Google sign in start and then what we're going
to trigger is the code related to signing in with Google so we're gonna make a new generator function
called sign in with Google and inside of here is going to be the code that we had before inside of our
sign and component that trigger our Google sign.
Now our Google site is a method on our firebase utilize that pretty much just triggers this call here.
But we want to call the off sign in with pop up ourselves because we want the object.
We're no longer relying on this listener to tell us whether or not the user has signed it.
So we actually need to move this code outside of this function call that we've written and we'll show
you how to do this.
First we're going to rename our provider to Google provider
and we're also going to export this provider out export right here and now what we'll do is we will
import in our Google provider and our off object from our firebase utilize.
Now what we need to do here is we also will need our create user profile document because we did it
before.
Inside of this call right here but now we're moving it into our saga.
And I know it seems confusing a little bit about why we're pulling all this stuff in right.
But if you fall along you'll definitely see where we're going with this
now that we have what we need we actually need to do our signing.
So what we'll do is we will wrap our attempt at our API call in a try block as you remember any code
that we write with an API has a chance to fail.
So we need to be sure that we can catch the error so inside of our try catch this will handle how we
get our errors.
The first thing we're gonna do is we know what we'll get back is a user ref.
Right.
So let's just make sure that we're getting the right thing first.
So we're gonna say cost user F equals a yield off dot sign and with pop up
which is the same method that we're running here and then we're just gonna pass in our Google provider.
And the reason why we don't want to use this function right here is because we want to actually access
the value that gets returned when the success happens with our side and with pop up we're gonna set
it to this user ref and then we're going to console log out our user.
Now the thing that we've got to do in order for this to work is we are going to also have to export
out our main saga and then put it inside of our root saga so that our application listens for it.
So we're gonna take that same pattern that we did with our root saga but make a user saga as well because
we know we're going to need multiple sagas so we can import in all and call and we will export out a
saga called User saga and this saga will pretty much just be us instantiating all of our other sagas
that we need to call.
So here we're gonna do our on Google sign and start and then we're gonna bring this into our root saga
and here we're gonna do call user saga and now we have to also make sure that we are triggering on Google
side and start whenever our button gets clicked so there might actually be inside of our signing component.
A couple of things we gonna bring in.
So first we actually have to bring in our new action that triggers Google sign and start
from our user user actions and now what we have to do is we will have to connect this in a dispatch.
So we'll need our connect as well
we'll need our map dispatch to props
which will set Google sign and to start to be a function that simply triggers our Google sign to start
action and then we pass this into our connect
so here nothing is that brand new.
We're just modifying our code to now take this in.
And then here we just want to make sure to D structure this off of our props and now use this instead
of our off dot sign and with Google.
Now one thing we do have to modify is this cotton but custom button on click.
I made a mistake before where we didn't say that this type was a button.
What ends up happening if you don't do that is that inside of sign and if we click sign in with Google
this form will actually trigger an on submit just because this button is also part of the form element.
It's just the nature of what we have to do with buttons even if we have a type summit here and this
button does not have the type submit.
This will unfortunately still trigger a sign.
So I'll show you.
If we click this we see that we just triggered our sign it but this is unfortunate because we don't
want to do that.
So what we have to do is we have to say type equals
and by doing type equals button our button now no longer will actually trigger the submit for our form.
So that's just a minor thing that we had to modify and I noticed when going over our project but now
that we have our custom button back in and our Google sign and start we do see that one ends up happening
is we trigger our Google sign and start.
So now inside of our saga we know that our Google sign and start needs to be passed in to our take latest
so if we go back let's clear this.
If we click Google sign and start we see that we trigger our dropdown we'll select our signing user
and we should see what we get back which is this object that has these different properties right.
Tell us what type of operation it was but the user is actually the user off object that we were using
before to build out our profile.
This is that same user off object that we were using and passing in inside of our app right here.
This user off object that we were checking for and passing in is now what we're getting back.
So we've got to make sure to pull off the user object from our user ref so we can just do structure
like this and once we have this value we know that what we need to do is we got to get our Snapshot
from this value that we now have.
So what we can do is we can now make sure to set a constant user ref that will know what get back when
we call as we remember using our call method create user profile document and then our new user.
So as we remember this is pretty much the same as us running this function except it's in the format
instead of an async await.
Right now we're using our yield and our call that we get back from our read saga effects.
Now we need our snapshot which we are going to get by calling yield user ref dog get and now we're going
to actually issue out our success call our action.
So we've got to import in our Google sign in success and our Google sign in failure from our user action
and then we're just going to yield the plot of our Google sign and success.
And as we remember we need to get the Snapchat I.D. and then spread in the rest of the data so we can
do use our Snapshot I.D. and then spreading in the rest of our user snapshot dot data and then we'll
also make sure to yield the plot of our error if we get an error who will sign it.
Failure with the error and now hopefully ArcSight and with Google will work so we see that we trigger
our Google sign to start when we click our button we select our user and then our site works we load
our actual user in right we get our user ref we get the snapshot we pass that data we trigger our success
and then our user reducer updates the current user with our payload that we're passing in as our actual
final action now hopefully this makes sense.
I know this is a longer lesson but this refactor is going to be pretty extensive.
So it's good that we take some time to make sure we look at every step that we're going to take.
Now if this didn't really make false sense we're going to do something very similar with email and we'll
walk through all of this again in the next lesson.